### Component Integration Testing and System Integration Testing

Component integration tests and system integration tests should concentrate on the integration itself. For example, if integrating module A with module B, tests should focus on the communication between the modules, not the functionality of the individual modules, as that should have been covered during component testing. If integrating system X with system Y, tests should focus on the communication between the systems, not the functionality of the individual systems, as that should have been covered during system testing. Functional, non-functional, and structural test types are applicable.

- **Component integration testing** is often the responsibility of developers.
- **System integration testing** is generally the responsibility of testers. Ideally, testers performing system integration testing should understand the system architecture and should have influenced integration planning.

If integration tests and the integration strategy are planned before components or systems are built, those components or systems can be built in the order required for most efficient testing. Systematic integration strategies may be based on the system architecture (e.g., top-down and bottom-up), functional tasks, transaction processing sequences, or some other aspect of the system or components.

To simplify defect isolation and detect defects early, integration should normally be incremental (i.e., a small number of additional components or systems at a time) rather than “big bang” (i.e., integrating all components or systems in one single step). A risk analysis of the most complex interfaces can help to focus the integration testing.

The greater the scope of integration, the more difficult it becomes to isolate defects to a specific component or system, which may lead to increased risk and additional time for troubleshooting. This is one reason that continuous integration, where software is integrated on a component-by-component basis (i.e., functional integration), has become common practice. Such continuous integration often includes automated regression testing, ideally at multiple test levels.

### System Testing

#### Objectives of System Testing

System testing focuses on the behavior and capabilities of a whole system or product, often considering the end-to-end tasks the system can perform and the non-functional behaviors it exhibits while performing those tasks. Objectives of system testing include:

- Reducing risk
- Verifying whether the functional and non-functional behaviors of the system are as designed and specified
- Validating that the system is complete and will work as expected
- Building confidence in the quality of the system as a whole
- Finding defects
- Preventing defects from escaping to higher test levels or production

For certain systems, verifying data quality may also be an objective. As with component testing and integration testing, in some cases automated system regression tests provide confidence that changes have not broken existing features or end-to-end capabilities. System testing often produces information that is used by stakeholders to make release decisions. System testing may also satisfy legal or regulatory requirements or standards.

The test environment should ideally correspond to the final target or production environment.
